>> Mike North: We can see right away
that this is a lot, this is verbose.
We have to specify email and name.
Those words are here three times, right?
Once to define the type,
once in the constructor signature and
then as we pass from function
arguments onto the instance.
So TypeScript has a shortcut for
this called Parameter Properties.
And we're gonna look at that.
But at the same time, we have to
introduce these access modifier keywords.
So you'll see these as
being one of three choices,
public, which is what you're used to,
right?
The only thing we have in JavaScript is
public, and public with an underscore,
which means shame on you for
using that, but it's still public.
Protected allows the instance, and
any instance of a subclass, to see it.
In private, means only that type
can see it, only that class.
Even a subclass won't be able to see
a private method or private field.
So, here is an example of
these parameter properties.
And unfortunately, the auto formatting
kinda makes things less than ideal.
So, the difference here
from our previous example,
obviously, there are a lot of
things that are not present.
But through adding an access modifier
keyword before our constructor's
arguments, we can create the equivalent
setup to what we had before.
In fact, I have even added
a little something here, and
that is the default value for
the second field.
So this means I take an argument
in my constructor and
a parameter like a field of the same
name should exist on the instance.
And when you receive
it in the constructor,
you should place it on the instance.
And I'm gonna convince you of this
by taking this exact same example.
I'm just gonna remove the interface.
And I'm gonna put it into
the TypeScript Playground so
we can see the JavaSscript
that it compiles to.
>> Mike North: And
get rid of the interface.
So, on the right side,
I know we're getting cut off here but
we can see that if the email is,
this is undefined, void 0 is undefined,
if the email is undefined,
initialize it with the default value.
And then we will receive
name as a function argument,
we put it on the instance,
same with email.
And then this is the comment that was
actually in the body of our constructor.
So you can see anything in your
constructor that you do custom,
would happen after all of this mapping
from parameters to fields has taken place.
This is a really nice convenience
because it allows us to do this common
thing where we want to pass
some stuff into a constructor,
get the fields,
it makes it a lot less verbose.
Note that if we were to make this
protected, which means the outside
world when interacting with
an instance of ParamPropContract,
it wouldn't be able to see this field.
So, we still can receive
it as an argument, but
you're not going to be able to
access it from the outside.
>> Mike North: Just passing
in some nonsense fields here,
nonsense values rather.
Down here you can see we only have
access to name whereas before,
we have access to both.
So that's the difference in
making it public or protected.
And you'll note that another
consequence of me making it
protected was I get an error up
here saying the class incorrectly
implements the interface HasEmail.
Can anyone make a guess as to
why this error is happening?
Clearly, the field is there, but
why might TypeScript be objecting?
>> Speaker 1: Email's not visible.
>> Mike North: Email's not visible.
You expect the instance of
this class to be a HasEmail,
meaning you can access name and
you can access email.
That's what it means to be a HasEmail.
So you're not really conforming to an
interface unless the things that allow you
to conform to it are public and
visible from the outside.
>> Mike North: And
now the error goes away.
>> Mike North: So
class fields can have initializers.
If you want a ParamProp initializer,
just do the same thing you would do for
function arguments,
cuz it is a function argument,
that's kind of where it lives, right?
So that's the default value for
the email field.
But if you have properties that are not
things that you take in as arguments to
a constructor, in this case, age,
which you can see up at the top,
you can just do the same thing
you would do in JavaScript.
This effectively is a default value.
If it is not in some way set like
within the constructor here.
So if in here I were to do like age = 35,
now like this will never come into play.
It is only initialized with
that if it has not yet
been initialized up until that point.
Where do we see evidence of that?
It's basically gonna turn
into this right here.
If it's undefined, initialize it.
>> Mike North: Did you have a question?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, does it infer
the type, if you give it a default?
>> Mike North: Yes, because it's a,
kinda same rules as a variable,
you're giving it its initial value,
and so it will do the best it can to
make a reasonable guess of the type.
Now the one thing you'd want to be careful
of is if this could be a string or
could be a number and you initialize it to
a number, you're going to have to specific
that you'll deliberately widen the type
to include the possibility of a string.
So it will make its usual guess and
rightly so.
I can take that away, and
it'll still be number.
>> Mike North: There's one other thing
that kind of fits into access modifier
keywords, although it's not really
about access in terms of visibility.
You could also do readonly.
And that, from a type checking
perspective, will yell at you for
attempted sites where you
are trying to write to this value.
Don't fool yourself, through,
because there may be JavaScript
consumers of this library.
And this does nothing at all in terms of
actually preventing rights to this value.
It is just like a renting thing for
people using type information.
So, I'll use this once in while but
just be advised that not
everyone uses type information.
And this is just making a check, right?